# Instagram data tools


These repo contains Research in progress, R scripts and datasets related to the project "Diplomatic Resolution". These tools are herein contained in order to enable project collaborators and the public to analyse, visualize and contribute to the artwork, which is currently installed in the Golden Lion-winning Korean Pavilion, "Crow's Eye View", at the 14th International Architecture Exhibition la Biennale di Venezia. The artwork is aggregates photos that have been directly uploaded to Instagram from within the DPRK. The photo metadata is also aggregated in the form of multiple JSON data sets and is cleaned and tidy'd for analysis and visualization.


[diplomatic resolution cover photo](http://wikipowdia.org/images/logo/diplomaticresolution.jpg)
## Diplomatic Resolution, 2014 Artist Statement


In Late 2012, the government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, quietly and without ceremony, opened the Koryo Link 3G cellular network to foreign tourists and journalists, allowing a small crack to form in the decades-old curtain of exclusively state-controlled media. While the majority of North Korean nationals are still restricted to using only the “walled garden” of the *Kwangmyong* intranet, and authorized access to the global internet is predominantly in the service of government propaganda, this modest respite has resulted in the appearance of digital images uploaded directly from north of the 38th parallel to the photo-sharing social network [Instagram](http://instagram.com/#).

This sudden emergence of relatively uncensored imagery from inside the most secluded and poorly understood country on Earth is a remarkable phenomenon in and of itself. It is a first encounter for a larger audience to the faces and culture of North Koreans, and a window into what Philipp Meuser calls, “the world’s best-preserved open-air museum of socialist architecture.” But, the combination of the faux-retro, augmented reality of Instagram's filters and these first glimpses of the orchestrated emptiness of the streets of Pyongyang, the prefab, *plattenbau* facades of sky-rise apartments, the surreal spectacles of *Juche* ideology, and the all-to-familiar faces of people in the course of everyday life invite the artist and audience to interrogate the reality of their moody drama and their authenticity.

**"A Diplomatic Resolution" is research-in-action. It is a collection of all the photos on Instagram uploaded directly from inside the DPRK and organized by date of upload. Metadata about these photos -- their tags, filters, comments, longitude and latitude, etc -- have been collected and are publicly available on Github.** As part of the Golden Lion-winning Korean National Pavilion, ["Crow's Eye View"](http://www.korean-pavilion.or.kr/14pavilion/index.html), at the [*14th International Architecture Exhibition la Biennale di Venezia*](http://www.labiennale.org/en/architecture/news/07-06.html), a list of artists and cultural producers have been invited to research, interpret and analyze this data to create data studies and visuals that will be included, amongst the photos, throughout the duration of the Biennale (June 6th ~ Nov 23rd).

Each of these photo, tainted as they are by the saturated "Hefe", washed out "Optimist" or sepia-toned "Earlybird" story telling of the Instagram software, the frame of the photographer, the bias of the analyst and, especially, our own expectations, captures a millisecond of witness to what AP photographer David Guttenfeld describes as “something worth trying to understand in North Korea.” And access to this data represents an important moment in the history of technology, global culture and the Korean Peninsula.

Credits: James Powderly, Jihoi Lee, Minsuk Cho, Betty Kim, [Mass Studies](http://www.massstudies.com/), photos courtesy of the Instagram API. © CopyLeft 2014 [Wikipowdia.org.](http://wikipowdia.org) No Rights Reserved.

## Diplomatic Resolution Data.frame from R JSON response
### Why and how I restructured the Instagram JSON response data

The Instagram V1 API is a RESTful API that allows the user to access Instagram's repository of user-generated content via http requests to a fixed set of "endpoints" or data targets. The Instagram API is documented [here](http://instagram.com/developer/#). The instagram response data is complete and well-formatted. It does not allow every possible type of media request via their "endpoint" offerings, but it cover's most of the bases. In the case of Diplomatic Resolution, the goal is to try to find a many photos as possible *of* North Korean that we can also confirm were uploaded from *within* the borders of North Korea. Instagram allows users to request media by location_id, location_name, longitude & latitude within a radius upto 5km, by tag and by user. It also allows the API user to subscribe to new uploads from a specific location or from within a given geographical range. Location id, name, and long/lat offer the most reliable data we can get. But location ids/names (which themself are provided to Instagram via Foursquare and Facebook's API) have relatively little coverage within North Korea, the 5km long/lat range does not offer full coverage of even Pyonyyang and the subscriptions do not backfill older uploads. Each location ID, name of geography range requires a seperate request to receive a maximum of 20 photos/videos at a time. Older requests must be made using a "pagination" URL that allows you to step back through the dataset until the dataset is exhausted or the API user stops makeing requests. Additionally, we may want to look at photos that are tagged #pyongyang, #northkorea, #dprk, #nkorea, etc and then also check their upload location longitude and latitude to discover additional direct uploads. So, we needed to combine multiple endpoint requests, collect and store all the data (from now until November 2012, which is the first time photos were allowed to be uploaded directly from within Korea by foreign visitors), merge it and order it. And the ultimate goal is to create a very tidy dataset that users can download and play with in order to create data studies and data visualizations using this unique data. This is why we chose to convert the JSON request data into a wide-format data.frame in R and expand, as much as possible, the nested value pairs, and arrays of data pairs, provided by Instagram (it is not possible, I think, to get rid of all the nested value pairs and required in a few cases to next data.frames within the master data.frame -- as described in the CodeBook). This is the rationale for the following conversion. 

## CODEBOOK
### Conversion Guide

The following table illustrates the basic structure of the Instagram API response and how the data was unpacked from the nested JSON value pairs and massaged into a data.frame in R


